tree/ -L 1

Show me only the 1st Level of the directory tree starting at / (root)". 
The -L option tells tree how many levels down you want to see.

/bin 
is the directory that contains binaries, that is, some of the 
applications and programs you can run. 

The /boot 
directory contains files required for starting your system. no messing

/dev 
contains device files. Many of these are generated at boot time or even on the fly

/etc
 dumping ground for system files administrators were not sure where else to put.

/home 
is where you will find your users' personal directories.

/lib
is where libraries live. Libraries are files containing code that your applications 
can use.

 /opt 

The /opt
directory is often where software you compile (that is, you build yourself
from source code and do not install from your distribution repositories)
sometimes lands. 

/proc, 
like /dev is a virtual directory. It contains information about your computer, such 
as information about your CPU and the kernel your Linux system is running. As with /dev,
the files and directories are generated when your computer starts, or on the fly, as 
your system is running and things change.

/root 
is the home directory of the superuser (also known as the "Administrator") of the system.

/sbin
 is similar to /bin, but it contains applications that only the superuser (hence the 
 initial s) will need. You can use these applications with the sudo command that 
 temporarily concedes you superuser powers on many distributions. 
/sbin typically contains tools that can install stuff, delete stuff and format stuff.

/usr
contains a mish-mash of directories which in turn contain applications, libraries, 
documentation, wallpapers, icons and a long list of other stuff that need to be 
shared by applications and services.

/tmp
contains temporary files, usually placed there by applications that you are running.

/var 
contains things like logs in the /var/log subdirectories. Logs are files that 
register events that happen on the system. If something fails in the kernel, it will 
be logged in a file in /var/log; 

cd name of file 
will take you to the directory of your choice (cd stands for change directory.

pwd 
will always tell you where you (pwd stands for print working directory)

cd
with no options or parameters, will take you back to your own home directory

cd ~ brings you to your home directory

cd ..
will take you up one level, getting you one level closer to the / root directory.

ls
to list the contents of the directory you are in right now.

ls -a shows hidden files 
ls -l or ls -lah shows all  files and their permissions and in readable form

ls -i shows the inode number
drwxr-xr-x "d" means directory
-rw-r--r-- "-" normal file 


